# comp110-journal
##Base repository for the COMP110 Research Journal assessment
##[[1] When does a physical system compute?] (http://rspa.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/royprsa/470/2169/20140182.full.pdf)
This paper begins by saying that quantum and biological computers have brought the physical basis of computing into the public eye. It explains computing is a high level process but there is no way to determine as of yet if a physical system is acting as a computer or not which has lead to a lot of misunderstanding and for some people to claim that everything could be a computer? I believe everything could be a computer when used in the right way, for example a rock, when used correctly it can be used to tell the time when used as a sun dial. The paper then goes on to suggest that they have come up with a way to see if a physical system is performing a computation. The write argues with the point that anything could be a computer and says “A ‘computer’ is a physical system with actual constituent parts and its own internal interactions” and “To act as a computer is always to be performing a specific computation”. She suggests a physical system can compute if they are confident that the physical theory is correct and within the know limits of the theory then everything will work and it has to be able to encode and decode information. I think the paper was quite confusing but the diagrams helped. The paper got me thinking about what the difference is between what is a computer and how something computes, does the physical system have to be able to decode and encode information if it wants to be classed as a computer? Overall I found this paper fairly difficult to fully understand.
##[[2] Experimental Investigations of the Utility of Detailed Flowcharts in Programming] (http://dl.acm.org.ezproxy.falmouth.ac.uk/ft_gateway.cfm?id=359610&ftid=45482&dwn=1&#URLTOKEN#)
This paper is talking about flowcharts and the results of several experiments that were done in which students were split into groups; some of the groups were given flowcharts of varying complexities, some of them were given no flowcharts at all and they had to complete programming exercises. They did this to try and figure out if there was actually an advantage to using one. The results surprised me, there were almost no difference in the deviation of results between the students who did and didn’t use them. However I don’t believe the results to be totally accurate as they allowed the teams as long as they needed to finish and the students were of different levels of programming. The paper tries to suggest that flowcharts are not very useful but I would disagree. I believe flowcharts can be extremely useful when you are learning how to program and when you are given more difficult tasks to program as I find it easier to learn when I can visually see things like flowcharts, although everyone has different opinions on this. I also think when you learn how flowcharts work it teaches you to think more like a programmer making it easier to be able to program and you can use flowcharts less until you feel comfortable without them. Although flowcharts are good for seeing how the program will flow I don’t find them useful for checking for errors and modifying the code as the results of the experiment also showed. 
##[[3] A Fast Procedure For Computing The Distance Between Complex Objects In Three-Dimensional Space] (http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.ezproxy.falmouth.ac.uk/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=2083)
This paper provides the reader with an algorithm for calculating the Euclidean distance which is the length of the shortest line segment joining the two objects together. This is useful because it allows you to be able to work out how close the objects are to each other and if they collide. The authors say that it is best used for three-dimensional spaces. I imagine this formula is helpful for game developers as they can use it for collision detection between players and models although most programs these days come with build in collision detection maybe it somewhat irrelevant today. As the paper goes into such detail with highly complex formulas I am not able to fully understand what is going on making it difficult at times to understand what is going on. 
##[4] [Go To Statements Considered Harmful] (http://dl.acm.org.ezproxy.falmouth.ac.uk/citation.cfm?doid=362947)
The paper by Edsger W. Dijkstra is a series of letters sent to the editor of the magazine “Communications of the ACM”. The letters mainly focuses on why the go to statement shouldn’t be used in higher level programming expect when they are used for machine code as if a program is done properly they shouldn’t need them. He says that it is blamed for decreasing the quality of programmers at the time. The writer doesn’t give any reasons as to why the go to statements are good and why they should be used, this makes the paper very biased. A go to statement is basically if a certain condition is met go to this place, however if it was met with a different condition it would go elsewhere in the code. The writer then goes on to talk about how it becomes “terribly hard to find a meaningful set of coordinates in which to describe the process progress.” This means it’s becoming hard for programmers to find the position the program is in at the current time. Go to statements are bad for maintaining the program as when you change the code you have to change the go to statement to go to the correct line or the program will crash. I think his points are very logical and can understand where he is coming from as things like global variables are hard to track down and make the program difficult to maintain, but these days most IDE’s come with built in bug trackers which can help if you have a bug in your program. 
## Conclusion
Every papers talks about different topics. The first paper discusses how a physical system computes using several theories to back it up. The second paper talks about flowcharts being used in groups and whether or not they are actually needed because they all got pretty much the same results, which as computing students we can relate to. The third papers talks about an algorithm that calculates the distance between two objects which is useful for making games for hit detection. The fourth paper talks about how go to statements should be abolished because they make the program hard to maintain and change which link with the flowcharts which can help with the go to statements. I believe the main point linking these papers is as students I think they’re trying to teach us about correct practises so we can become better programmers, for example it’s asking us if we need flowcharts and talks about how the go to statements make the code hard to maintain which gives us the knowledge to learn what to do in future. The third paper links into this as because we are computing for games students it’s nice to learn about collision detection because we can implement this in the games we make. 
##References
[1] Horsman, Clare and Stepney, Susan and Wagner, Rob C. and Kendon, Viv (2014) "When does a physical system compute?", Proceedings of the Royal Society A: mathematical, physical and engineering sciences., 470 (2169). p. 20140182.

[2] Ben Shneiderman, Richard Mayer, Don McKay, and Peter Heller. 1977. "Experimental investigations of the utility of detailed flowcharts in programming", Commun. ACM 20, 6 (June 1977), p. 373-381.

[3] E. G. Gilbert, D. W. Johnson and S. S. Keerthi, "A fast procedure for computing the distance between complex objects in three-dimensional space," in IEEE Journal on Robotics and Automation, vol. 4, no. 2, pp. 193-203, Apr 1988.

[4] Edsger W. Dijkstra, 1968, "Letters to the editor: go to statement considered harmful", Commun. ACM 11, 3 (March 1968), p. 147-148.
